readme.md, before:

# Somewhat easy ONB (Open Net Battle) server setup
This guide will set you up with your own ONB server with:
- the ONB server
- ezlibs server scripts, which let you easily add NPCs, Shops, Items, and more.
- an update script for easy updating in future
- git version tracking, so you can track all your changes and collaborate with others

**If you dont care about any of that and just want a quick server, go to the #builds channel in the discord, download the latest zip and run the exe**
but if you have a big project in mind I encourage continuing 

first, you will need git in order to use this template.
#### Git Download links
[windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win)

## Windows setup
1. open a command prompt / PowerShell / terminal window in the folder you would like to start in.
`on windows you can hold SHIFT and Right Click in the folder`
1. paste and run `git clone --recurse-submodules --remote-submodules https://github.com/Keristero/onb-server-template.git`
1. run start.bat `start.bat`
1. If all goes well, you should now be able to visit your server in game at `127.0.0.1:8765`

## A note of caution
- If you edit any of the files in `ezlibs-scripts` or `ezlibs-custom`, the update script wont work anymore, if you have any customizations to make to ezlibs, open a pull request to the repository on my github, or limit them to the `ezlibs-custom\custom.lua` file

## After setting up your server...
- Edit maps using the [Tiled Map editor](https://www.mapeditor.org/), you can find guides in #help and #area-creators on the discord
- Check out the server documentation [here](https://github.com/TheMaverickProgrammer/OpenNetBattle), and the ezlibs documentation [here](https://github.com/Keristero/ezlibs-scripts) to see all the cool things servers can do.
- Set up [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [Lua](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=sumneko.lua) extension for easier server scripting
- Make a github account and push your changes to a new fork of this repository, update this readme to discribe your server and share it
- Follow a port forwarding guide for your router to allow others to access you server, then post it on the discord in #servers
- Consider running the server in a container with docker if you want to autorun the server on startup as a background process

Commit message:

add docker steps and helper .bat

readme.md, after:

# Somewhat easy ONB (Open Net Battle) server setup
This guide will set you up with your own ONB server with:
- the ONB server
- ezlibs server scripts, which let you easily add NPCs, Shops, Items, and more.
- an update script for easy updating in future
- git version tracking, so you can track all your changes and collaborate with others

**If you dont care about any of that and just want a quick server, go to the #builds channel in the discord, download the latest zip and run the exe**
but if you have a big project in mind I encourage continuing 

first, you will need git in order to use this template.
#### Git Download links
[windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win)

## Standard Windows setup 
1. open a command prompt / PowerShell / terminal window in the folder you would like to start in.
`on windows you can hold SHIFT and Right Click in the folder`
1. paste and run `git clone --recurse-submodules --remote-submodules https://github.com/Keristero/onb-server-template.git`
1. run run.bat `run.bat`
1. If all goes well, you should now be able to visit your server in game at `127.0.0.1:8765`

## Docker Windows setup (cool kids alternative)
1. Download and install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
1. Restart PC, yes, you have to...
1. run docker_run.bat `docker_run.bat`

- this should build the server in a docker container, copy it into your /server folder, and run your server.
- you can view your server logs from the docker desktop application or with `logs_docker.bat`
- stop the server with `stop_docker.bat`, if you dont stop the server it will auto reboot whenever it crashes.
- if you want your server to also run on boot, tick `Start Docker Desktop when you log in` the Docker Desktop settings.


## A note of caution
- If you edit any of the files in `ezlibs-scripts` or `ezlibs-custom`, the update script wont work anymore, if you have any customizations to make to ezlibs, open a pull request to the repository on my github, or limit them to the `ezlibs-custom\custom.lua` file

## After setting up your server...
- Edit maps using the [Tiled Map editor](https://www.mapeditor.org/), you can find guides in #help and #area-creators on the discord
- Check out the server documentation [here](https://github.com/TheMaverickProgrammer/OpenNetBattle), and the ezlibs documentation [here](https://github.com/Keristero/ezlibs-scripts) to see all the cool things servers can do.
- Set up [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [Lua](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=sumneko.lua) extension for easier server scripting
- Make a github account and push your changes to a new fork of this repository, update this readme to discribe your server and share it
- Follow a port forwarding guide for your router to allow others to access you server, then post it on the discord in #servers
- Consider running the server in a container with docker if you want to autorun the server on startup as a background process
